Extending section Example - Dealing with Xamarin (#1593)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x04f-Testing-Network-Communication.md

When testing a Xamarin app and when you are trying to set the system proxy in the WiFi settings you won't be able to see any HTTP requests in your interception proxy, as the apps created by Xamarin do not use the local proxy settings of your phone. There are three ways to resolve this:

- Add a [default proxy to the app](https://developer.xamarin.com/api/type/System.Net.WebProxy/ "System.Net.WebProxy Class"), by adding the following code in the `OnCreate` or `Main` method and re-create the app:

    ```csharp
    WebRequest.DefaultWebProxy = new WebProxy("192.168.11.1", 8080);
    ```

- Use bettercap in order to get a man-in-the-middle position (MITM), see the section above about how to setup a MITM attack. When being MITM we only need to redirect port 443 to your interception proxy running on localhost. This can be done by using the command `rdr` on macOS:

    ```shell
    $ echo "
    rdr pass inet proto tcp from any to any port 443 -> 127.0.0.1 port 8080
    " | sudo pfctl -ef -
    ```

> 

Reviewer: This should be added:

In Burp you need to set the option  'Support invisible proxy' in the listener settings.

Author: I will add it. Right now I only mark that as Resolved conversation.

Reviewer: You need to make a git pull first. Do you want to add it to this PR? Then I don't merge the PR yet

Author: I will create a new PR. It would be simpler and easier.

For Linux systems you can use `iptables`:

    ```shell
    $ sudo iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -p tcp --dport 443 -j DNAT --to-destination 127.0.0.1:8080 
    ```

> - Add entry in `/etc/hosts` for target location and point it to your intercepting proxy address. This creates similar situation to being MiTM and you need to redirect port 443 to port, which is used by your interception proxy. Redirection can be applied as mentioned above. Additionally, you need to redirect traffic from your interception proxy to original location and port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Instead of bettercap an alternative is tweaking the `/etc/hosts` on the mobile phone. Add an entry into `/etc/hosts` for the target domain and point it to the IP address of your intercepting proxy. This creates a similar situation of being MiTM as with bettercap and you need to redirect port 443 to the port which is used by your interception proxy. The redirection can be applied as mentioned above. Additionally, you need to redirect traffic from your interception proxy to the original location and port.
```

> > When redirecting a traffic you should create narrow rules to minimize noise and out-of-scope traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When redirecting traffic you should create narrow rules to the domains and IPs in scope, to minimize noise and out-of-scope traffic.
```

The interception proxy need to listen to the port specified in the port forwarding rule above, which is 8080.

> When a Xamarin app originally configured to use proxy, after redirecting traffic to your intercepting proxy you need to specify where traffic should go next. You need to redirect traffic to original location. The following procedure is for setting up redirection to original location on Burp:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Xamarin app is configured to use a proxy (e.g. by using `WebRequest.DefaultWebProxy`) you need to specify where traffic should go next, after redirecting the traffic to your intercepting proxy. You need to redirect the traffic to the original location. The following procedure is setting up a redirection in Burp to the original location:
```

Reviewer: Is `WebRequest.DefaultWebProxy` what you mean when you are talking about "When a Xamarin app originally configured to use proxy"?

Author: In case it was custom built dll which handles communication to proxy.  So I picked easier way than patching dll. But should work with `WebRequest.DefaultWebProxy`.

1. Go to **Proxy** tab and click on **Options**

> 2. Select your listener from list of proxy listener and edit that listener.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select and edit your listener from the list of proxy listeners.
```

3. Go to **Request handling** tab and set:

    - Redirect to host: provide original traffic location
    - Redirect to port: provide original port location

>     - Set 'Force use of SSL' and set 'Support invisible proxy'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Set 'Force use of SSL' (when HTTPS is used) and set 'Support invisible proxy'.
```
